A selection of tests to consider for a typical login page and it's functionality

Functional tests - UI
1	Verify if a user will be able to login with a valid username and valid password.
2	Verify if a user cannot login with a valid username and an invalid password.
3	Verify the login page for both, when the field is blank and Submit button is clicked.
4	Verify the ‘Forgot Password’ functionality.
5	Verify the messages for invalid login.
6	Verify the ‘Remember Me’ functionality.
7	Verify if the data in password field is either visible as asterisk or bullet signs.
8	Verify if a user is able to login with a new password only after he/she has changed the password.
9	Verify if the login page allows to log in simultaneously with different credentials in a different browser.
10	Verify if the ‘Enter’ key of the keyboard is working correctly on the login page.

Functional tests - API



###### Optional test cases ######

Other Test Cases
11	Verify the time taken to log in with a valid username and password.	
12	Verify if the font, text color, and color coding of the Login page is as per the standard.	
13	Verify if there is a ‘Cancel’ button available to erase the entered text.	
14	Verify the login page and all its controls in different browsers.

Non-functional Security Test Cases:
1	Verify if a user cannot enter the characters more than the specified range in each field (Username and Password).
2	Verify if a user cannot enter the characters more than the specified range in each field (Username and Password).
3	Verify the login page by pressing ‘Back button’ of the browser. It should not allow you to enter into the system once you log out.
4	Verify the timeout functionality of the login session.
5	Verify if a user should not be allowed to log in with different credentials from the same browser at the same time.
6	Verify if a user should be able to login with the same credentials in different browsers at the same time.
7	Verify the Login page against SQL injection attack.
8	Verify the implementation of SSL certificate.